In this video, we're going to do the minimum required to configure Git.
First off, if Git Bash is not already loaded, invoke Git Bash.
We're going to use Git's config command to set the values required for Git's configuration.
The first command we're going to use is: git, config, space, --global, space, --list.
The git config command can operate at the repository level, or at the user level, which is indicated by the "--global" option.
"--list" is the parameter we pass into the git config command to list all the known configuration options at the level being passed in,
in this case, global. Once you've done that press enter. Great, so we have an error message from Git Bash.
It's telling us that it cannot read the ".gitconfig" file under our user's home directory.
I wanted to demonstrate that git is using a file called .gitconfig, that is located under our user's home directory.
This is the file used for global configuration settings in Git. Let's start off with our first configuration setting: our user's name.
Type git; space; config; space; --global; followed by the setting to set, in this case "user.name"; space;
and then in double quotes, the value. I'm going to put my name in, but you should put in your name. Double check the line, and then press enter.
A lot of times when we enter in commands with Git, no news is good news. We will continue on, assuming the prior command was successful.
The next command is to set the email address for our user. Type git, space, config, space --globlal, space, user.email, space,
and then in double quotes, put your email address. I'm using my email address in this example. Review your line and then press enter.
Again, no news is good news, but at this point we can go ahead and verify this by listing our global configuration as we did before.
Like above, we're going to type git, space, config, space, --global, space, --list.
And this time, instead of an error, git responds with the two configuration options that we set, the user's name and the user's email.
To show you these commands are just being saved into a .gitconfig file, I'm going to use the "cat" command
to output the entire contents of that file back to the console. So type:
cat, that's c-a-t; space; ~, which is a shortcut to our user's home directory; /.gitconfig.
Dot files are special files are semi-hidden, so they don't get accidentally edited or deleted. Double check the line, and then press enter.
The output of this file so far is a "[user]" section, with two values: name and email, and their corresponding values.
This is all we needed to do to in order to configure Git properly, so that we can do some other commands later on.